The AllJoyn team is excited to announce a new tool for developers - the Code Generator. If you have your AllJoyn service interface specification already defined, you can run the Code Generator tool which is designed to generate working sample source code for both your service and client. This tool, currently supporting Linux (it may also work on and for Windows, but we haven't validated it) and C++ bindings only, is designed to allow you to get to the domain-specifics--the real meat of your AllJoyn application--more quickly by providing the "boilerplate" that all AllJoyn apps share. This includes the bus-attachment logic, object creation, interface binding, and the marshalling/unmarshalling of messages that correspond to the various methods and signals that comprise the service object.

The input to the Code Generator is an XML file which describes your service object(s) and interface(s). The output is a collection of C++ files for the service and client, as well as makefiles necessary to build these two entities. Most of these output files are ready to be compiled. Several contain skeleton code that you will need to flesh out according to the needs of your particular application. This means you only need to implement the methods, signals and properties specified by your interface(s), while the Code Generator handles all of the AllJoyn 'plumbing.'

You can even have the Code Generator produce a fully executable service and client, invoking your AllJoyn methods and signals with default data. This immediately compilable/linkable/executable system should be a great help in learning and using the AllJoyn concepts in C++.

Because the Code Generator is being released as Open Source, you also have the opportunity to extend and improve it. It comes with its own unit-testing framework and extensive collection of unit test input XML files, which can also serve as examples of XML interface definitions.

The AllJoyn Code Generator is available as source only and is super easy to build (we included a shell script to do so). It is available on GitHub at the following URL: https://github.com/alljoyn/alljoyn_codegen

We hope this tool is a useful addition to your development environment. Enjoy!
